# Network Monitor Repository 
Hi, this is my repository for a network monitor written in Java. I designed it to run on a Raspberry Pi Zero.

## Setup
For the jar file to run it must be placed in a directory with a Devices.txt file and a directory called events.
The program will store events in the events directory. 
The program will load the devices to monitor from the Devices.txt file. 

The program requires java to run the .jar file and openjfx to run the javaFX GUI. I used the following commands to install the relevent packages.
- sudo apt-get install openjdk-7-jdk
- sudo apt-get install openjfx

To run the program I use the following. (I found this command on an article online which I can no longer find)
- java --module-path /usr/share/openjfx/lib --add-modules=javafx.base,javafx.controls,javafx.fxml,javafx.graphics,javafx.media,javafx.swing,javafx.web -jar networkmonitor.jar

## DeviceList.txt File
This is used to load the devices to monitor. Each line corresponds to a different device and should follow the following format.
- Format: Identifyer|Value|Identifyer|Value
- Example: ip|8.8.8.8|name|Google
- Possible Identifiers are "ip","name" and "macAdress".

In this example, the identifiers are ip and name with corresponding values of 8.8.8.8 and Google respectively. The order of Identifiers and corresponding values does not matter. However, an Identifier and its value must follow each other. The macAdress value is currently not used. The verticle line "|" delimiter allows for spaces " "in names. However, this means that names can not contain the "|" character.

## Events Directory 
This is used to store the events generated by the program. Events could be a device going offline or online. Each file corresponds to a different event.
- File Contents Format: ip|ip of device|type|event type enum|dateOccurred|DD/MM/YYYY HH:MM:SS
- File Conennts Example: ip|8.8.8.8|type|CAME_ONLINE|dateOccurred|29/10/2024 14:48:01

The names of the files are NOT relevant as the program loads all the files in the events directory regardless of name. However, the generated event file names do follow a pattern.
- File Name Format: ip=ipOfDevice_type=eventTypeEnum_dateOccured=date.txt
- File Name Example: ip=8.8.8.8_type=CAME_ONLINE_dateOccurred=29_10_2024_14_48_01.txt

Windows does not allow for verticle lines "|" in names so they are replaced with underscores "\_". Navigating files with spaces in the name through a CLI is a pain so the spaces " " in the date are also replaced with underscores "\_".

## Notes 
A useful command I found to install an on-screen keyboard for rasberry pi os is.
- sudo apt install matchbox-keyboard
